failure
is the single
most
information-rich data stream that exists
[Music]
i cannot promise you that you'll ever be
successful
the very thing you're pursuing in your
life is very [__] simple it is
fulfillment that's it
[Music]
so if you want to
actually make your dreams come true i'm
not telling you not to chase money i'm
just saying it's not going to feed you
emotionally the way you think it is
so you've got to completely divorce
yourself from this notion of outcome and
become completely obsessed with the idea
of sincere pursuit
[Music]
the reason to tie that to sincere
pursuit is it's the only part you can
control
and now
please put your hands together for a
night with tom billion
i i'm about to ruin that [__] good
mood let me tell you right now
we'll see how fast we can get uh cut
right through the [__] so
we want these knights to have their own
unique fingerprint
when we decided to do a live series we
didn't want it to be
the same old same old i didn't want it
to be just the speech that i go and do
when people um bring me out to an event
i wanted it to be something where if you
came to ten of them in a row
every one of them was going to be
different and so that's why we wanted
you guys to participate we had people
send in those videos we had you guys
right up on the wall what your hopes and
fears are i watched every video that was
sent in i read everything on the wall
and that put my team in a bit of an
anxious state because nobody knew what
the hell tonight is going to be and
quite frankly
i know what my intention is i know what
i want to do i know what i want to
accomplish
but i don't know the path that we're
going to take and that path is going to
be uniquely determined by the people in
this room so this night will only be as
good as you guys engage i'm gonna try to
get us into a headspace
and then i'm gonna open it up for
questions and the questions are really
where the magic happens if you can keep
it a question and keep that [__] brief
which is not necessarily everybody's
strong suit if they have anxiety and
someone puts a [__] mic in your face
so i get that
but if we can do that if we can get to a
place where we're really cutting through
the bs and we're talking about what's
really going on then we can actually get
to the true nature of success and that's
what i want to talk about tonight for me
this is all about demystifying success
because there's this sense that people
that achieve something great
have some innate thing in them that
allows them to do this and if you go
read that wall you're going to see
certain things over and over and over
i'm afraid i won't fulfill my potential
i'm afraid i'm going to embarrass myself
i'm afraid that i'm not going to be good
enough that i don't have what it takes
that's the kind of stuff that you see
over and over and over and over it is so
[__] universal that until you can
address that in your own mind until you
can understand the hard [__] truth
which is that you're not yet good enough
in fact i want you guys all right now
i want you to look to your left
and then i want you to look to your
right
and see the people sitting around you
and i want you to know this about them
their dream
almost certainly
is not going to come true
now that's some dark [__] to open an
evening like this on
and like i said when you guys were all
standing and cheering it was so nice and
i should just come and say some nice
things to you but that is my biggest
[__] fear in life lisa and i have
already been very financially successful
we don't have to work and yet we're
working harder than ever because i
believe that there is a way for the most
average of people to actually make their
dreams come true but i am only
interested in the actually part
i spent a lot of years of my life being
an empty dreamer where i had a vision of
what i wanted i had all the [__]
ambition in the world but i did not have
the drive the fortitude to do what his
shirt says which is do the work
now if they had left me that sure would
redo the [__] work to really get
people's attention because that's that's
the truth and for those of you that
resonate with david goggins like then
you'll get the thing that you have to
have inside you if you want to be
successful now in all of these talks i'm
going to make one presupposition
and if you're with me on that then it's
going to be a good night and if you're
not maybe it'll be fun and entertaining
but at the end of the day i don't know
that i'm going to be of use to you
and the supposition that i'm going to
make
is that you want to be extraordinary
you want to do something big
that the dream that you have
is worth fighting for
that's also why i say when you look to
your left and to your right the people
that you're looking at are almost
certainly going to fail at making their
dreams come true unless
unless
in these 90 minutes and this is my
intention in these 90 minutes we're able
to touch on the real [__] that it takes
to actually be successful to get your
head in the place you need to be and
then to do the things you actually need
to do all i'm going to be talking about
tonight it is a game of [__]
execution
once you realize success is not some
mysterious thing it is simply a
relentless game of execution of falling
on your [__] face embarrassing
yourself over and over picking yourself
back up and asking one simple [__]
question
why did i fail
and if you can ask that question
without pointing the finger at somebody
else
but really look at what you did that
caused that situation then you're going
to be able to begin down the path of
real skill acquisition a lot of the
things that i say are not [__] sexy
and i know i could have a following ten
times the size there's jeremy mary by
the way the guy that runs our instagram
page
[Applause]
do not clap for that [__]
and i'm gonna tell you why he may be the
hardest working frenchman you were ever
gonna find but he'd be real [__]
happy for me to just lie so he can hit
his okr's and if i came on and i spit
fire about man you could do it your
dreams are gonna come true this is gonna
be [__] awesome i believe in you
everyone here believes in you and then i
would go shoot myself in the face
because it wouldn't [__] work
and when you get to like what do you
really want like someone put up on the
wall that their big fear was watching
someone they love suffer in front of
them and feel powerless to do anything
now i will hazard a guess that many of
the people in this room are living that
nightmare right now how many people here
have someone they love who is living a
very sub-optimal life
because they can't get their mind in the
right place
that's basically all of us
so that is
the human condition the human condition
truly i think the buddhists have it
right the human condition is [__]
suffering
and what i'm going to talk to you about
like i said there's
two paths one i'm going to assume you
want to do something extraordinary but
it is a path of suffering and when you
understand that when you understand what
you're going to have to fight through to
actually accomplish things then you can
begin to really frame things correctly
so that you can follow through and get
where you want to go and not live the
cliche of money can't buy happiness and
all that you realize that you're chasing
fulfillment but fulfillment is often
born of suffering
but it has to be suffering with a
purpose
and so when you begin to understand that
cocktail you can differentiate it from
the other side of the coin which is a
stress-free life
a life that is not an offer tonight
because i cannot help you with that
that is not the life that i've chosen
for me i am driven and if you've read
tim grover's book relentless you know
exactly what i'm talking about for
whatever reason
a little bit of wiring a little bit of
reinforcement as a kid a whole lot of
obsessive beliefs and value changing as
an adult has led me to the point where
the only thing that gets me on fire the
only thing that wakes me up and makes me
feel alive is to believe
that i can do anything that doesn't
violate the laws of physics and now i'm
just racing against a [__] clock to
do it
but now the reason that lisa and i have
had the kind of success we've had is it
was never okay for us
for it just to be an idea that we pushed
out and pushed out and pushed out into
the future like we did about having kids
because that we had planned two years
after we get married right baby
that was 17 years ago
but with making our dreams come true we
always had
after the initial period which you guys
have heard about and i'll walk us
through it a little bit but after i got
past that it was all about relentless
execution and constantly judging myself
against
metrics
like was i actually making progress or
not
so if you want to
actually make your dreams come true
man and if i can [__] explain this
this is like one of those breakthrough
moments for somebody like when you
really get what i'm about to say all
right my friend i have a big
announcement my incredible and talented
wife lisa is about to launch her new
book radical confidence in it she has
managed to perfectly capture the process
of how to go from feeling lost and
insecure to taking control of your life
and doing amazing things despite feeling
fear sometimes a lot of fear now let me
tell you nobody knows lisa better than
me but when i read radical confidence
for the first time and heard her
describe what it was like for her to go
from having these big exciting dreams as
a kid to then as an adult scheduling her
life around the tv shows that she wanted
to watch or how lonely and isolated she
felt instead of pursuing her dreams it
was brutal for me i would never say
though that it was worth it for her to
go through all of that just so that she
could write something down that allows
others to avoid it but i will say that
at least she was able to capture the
strategies that she used to break out of
that rut find her voice and begin doing
incredible things despite her
insecurities and fears that she wasn't
going to be good enough to achieve great
things so while it hurts me to know the
dark place that lisa went through i
really am excited for people who are
going through something similar right
now to read this book radical confidence
is an instruction manual for how to
become the hero of your own life even
when you're scared to death look i know
better than just about anybody how easy
it is to get off track in life or to
just not have yet found your calling and
it's even easier for people to feel so
insecure and unprepared that they don't
even want to pursue the things that they
want but what lisa shows people in
radical confidence is that the radical
part is that you can accomplish
extraordinary things even when you feel
fear that's what radical confidence is
being afraid and unsure and having a
tool kit that allows you to still make
massive progress pre-order your copy
today because if you act now you can
claim the bonuses that lisa has created
for you at
radicalconfidence.com they're only
available if you pre-order so act now
then once you've done that we'll get
back to today's episode all right guys
read the book and get ready to be the
hero of your own life peace out
[Music]
in fact right now we're all going to
make a promise to ourselves you can do
it silently we have to have everybody
shouting it out
but you're going to make a promise to
yourself right now because if if you
follow through with what we're about to
say everything will be different if you
fail to do this you'll come back a year
from now and you're going to write the
same [__] on the wall i promise because
this is the part that you have to break
out of
make yourself a promise right now that
you will
disengage
your sense of self
your sense of self worth
from achievement
and you're gonna marry that [__]
to pursuit
once you are
holy focused on sincere pursuit
everything changes
when you're focused on outcome when
you're saying to yourself i want to get
rich i want to win the academy award ah
those are my dreams it's an end state
right it doesn't work like here's one of
those things things become trite because
they're so [__] true so please for
the love of god don't make people repeat
the most obvious [__] ever like money
can't buy happiness
okay money can't buy happiness it can
buy a lot of cool [__]
it bought me a really [__] nice house
in fact baby show the photo
yeah
we actually own part of that jet company
i'm not [__] joking how crazy is that
we know the [__] ceo there was one
time where i was trying to get on the
flight and they were giving me [__] i
can't remember why and i called the ceo
up and i was like yo you need to talk to
your gate agent
like that's [__] money
it's [__] bananas
money is better than you think it is
more powerful than you think but it is
not at all what you've been told
money solves [__] money problems and
that's awesome and there's a lot of cool
stuff that you can do with money there's
no joke so we run impact theory out of
our house our house is like 10 000
square feet [__] swimming pool
balconies all that crazy [__] one of our
rooms is actually called like actually
when we bought the house they called it
this it's called the great room
and that [__] thing is big
i'm not joking we once played um
nerf with nerf guns we did like a whole
hide and seek capture the flag thing in
the [__] house it was crazy
so money does really extraordinary
things people will chase money forever
because money actually has utility so i
am not the guy that's saying oh money
doesn't matter or money is not a thing
or money's not worth a pursuit what i am
saying though money really can't buy
happiness the very thing you're pursuing
in your life is very [__] simple it
is fulfillment that's it now i sum up
fulfillment very simply how do you feel
about yourself when you're by yourself
do you feel good do you feel like you're
making the most of your life are you
tapping into what the greeks call techne
are you working your ass off
and that's a key component is it hard
sad but true are you working your ass
off for a set of skills
this is oh you this is the angry face
this this is this is about tapping into
rage we talked about that elizabeth not
at rage yet
we'll get there
but there we go
so
you really have to
work hard
for a set of skills
that matter to you
now the skills have to matter that's a
key part of the equation
once the skills matter to you
and they allow you to serve not only
yourself but other people and then you
actually go and serve those people it
becomes this really potent cocktail of
neurochemistry but i want to make sure
that everybody understands the game that
you're playing is a game of
neurochemistry right in the last year at
least two billionaires committed suicide
so i mean like it's [__]
heartbreaking when anybody commits
suicide but when billionaires start
committing suicide like if the answer is
not just self-evident beyond all
imagining that money is not going to
solve the problems that exist between
your ears like there's there's nothing
more anyone can tell you a fool never
learns
a smart man learns from his mistakes a
wise man learns from the mistakes of
others on this one i'm [__] begging
you be wise i'm not telling you not to
chase money i'm just saying it's not
going to feed you emotionally the way
you think it is so you've got to
completely divorce yourself from this
notion of outcome and become completely
obsessed with the idea of sincere
pursuit
now why sincere pursuit
the reason to tie your
sense of self your self-esteem your
pride your ego your identity all of that
the reason to tie that to sincere
pursuit is it's the only part you can
control
i cannot promise you that you'll ever be
successful
you
cannot promise you
that you will be successful
but you can
promise
and know
if you actually did it
to show up every day and really pursue
it
you control your mindset
you control how you feel about yourself
nobody can actually get you to feel some
kind of way about yourself
you allow that [__] in right that's like
the cheesiest self-help [__] you're ever
gonna hear but it got cheesy because
it's so true so people repeated it a lot
and if you lose sight of that if you
lose sight of what you allow yourself to
think is going to control you at a
neurochemical level
and at the neurochemical level that's
going to influence then again how you
feel and how you think and then you get
into this death spiral where you're
thinking negative [__] you believe in
the negative [__] which makes you feel
badly about yourself and then you get
stuck in that and you can't get out and
you see a lot of that on the hopes and
fears
people are afraid they're never going to
be able to break free people in this
[__] room that took the time to write
it down that they were never going to
get out of that negative loop
and that negative loop is really real
but here's the thing the negative loop
is based in biology
and once you begin to understand what
the biology is exactly then you can
begin to take control of your life and
step one in the biological train is to
break
the tie that you have between
outcome
and worth
once you begin to break that down then
you can step to [__] naked in raw and
say all right this is just practice
and once you're in that mode of
practicing you're in skill acquisition
mode
and the name of the game is [__]
skill acquisition like it really is sort
of that dull and boring it's just about
getting so good at something that you
can't be denied
and that's one of those things like i'm
going to say that phrase so much that i
worry that's going to become trite but
that is one of the most
awe-inspiring notions on the planet
the thought that you could become so
good at something
that you leave people in awe
and when you can leave people in awe
you can do just about anything you want
with your life
the easiest way to talk about awe is to
think of
sports figures
right you've got sports figures you see
somebody like michael jordan or kobe
bryant you see what they do and you
think oh my god like they're given a
human body just like i was but look at
what they're able to do with theirs it's
absolutely extraordinary and whenever
you talk to the best of the best these
[__] always they always put in
the work
and that is
the obsession that anybody that wants to
be great and achieve something has to
have it's got to ultimately boil down to
the skill set now here's the problem the
reality and this is where i think most
people get derailed if you're able to
detach yourself from the outcome you're
able to start thinking in this new way
it's about sincere pursuit that idea of
sincere pursuit puts you in the path of
skill acquisition the next thing that
kills dreams real [__] fast is the
reality of what you're trying to build
to understand the reality
who knows
what is the second law of thermodynamics
entropy now entropy is a fancy word for
chaos
what it's saying is this is a this is a
[__] law of physics
everything moves towards chaos a system
without additional energy added will
always move towards chaos think about
your bedroom think about the dining room
table think about anything you leave
that [__] alone for 30 seconds she's
already poking him like yo [__]
i'm gonna send him pictures cause god
damn
that's chaos
that is certainly my wife she's
literally laughing right now because i
am
an agent of chaos when it comes to that
kind of thing that is for
sure anything left to its own devices is
going to move towards chaos all right
staying with physics
how do we
then create things that have order and
structure
we pour energy into the system and i'm
not saying this in a woo way and
everyone in this room has permission if
you ever hear me use the word quantum
mind
just [__] punch me in the mouth
if einstein didn't understand quantum
physics i assure you self-help movement
does not understand quantum physics
so i i want to keep this [__] nice and
real grounded
that that drives me [__] nuts
the reason it drives me nuts is i think
it throws people off the trail of what
you really have to [__] do
all right so the thing that really
begins to [__] people up is that they
have this idea
they want to accomplish something with
their life they're able to move over
start thinking about practice it's all
about pursuit they're judging themselves
based on that are they sincerely going
after it or not and then they get into
the middle of that [__] and it is so
mind-numbingly boring
in fact we i think have some photos
elise if you haven't already shown them
that
are the realities of what quest was like
to build it because what people see they
see the sexy side they see us at the inc
500 gala they see lisa wearing her
louboutins showing off the red undersole
she was very proud of those
but they don't see this [__] which is
where it started when nobody knew who
the [__] we were
this was before my man dave barum who's
hiding in this audience somewhere
this was when nobody knew who we are
nobody gave a [__] people were actually
saying things like i don't need protein
bars man no thanks i don't want any we
were giving them away for free people
wouldn't take them
we called one distributor up and he said
and i quote i need another protein bar
like i need another hole in the head
we went into a category that had 1600
other bars and flavors and had been
declining four years in sales nobody
wanted the product that we were making
but we believed we had what peter thiel
calls the zero to one we had a secret
that nobody else understood it meant
that we had to become our own
manufacturers which is how i went from
making software all day to making
protein bars all day so this is me
literally making protein bars
like this is the the grind this is the
boredom this is the sincere pursuit this
is the showing up every day we had to
assemble our own equipment which i
actually think we have a photo of as
well so this is us
this equipment showed showed up one day
a big [__] off like
semi
backs up and we're all like well how the
[__] are we supposed to get it out
i'm not joking and we're like are we
really that dumb and so we're scrambling
and we're like all right the the
neighbor in the building he's got a
forklift but nobody knows how to drive
forklift and i'm like
actually i do and my partner's like what
the [__] and i'm like as a kid man in my
family you had to work dead-end jobs my
dad had me in a paint factory i worked
in a paint warehouse i worked in a paint
factory and a paint store i'm a [__]
certified forklift driver so
we actually had video of me i turned to
the cameras we were filming it and i was
like dad wax on wax off i was like [__]
you want to talk about a skill i never
thought i would need
there it was
so i literally drive a [__] forklift
put all this [__] down
and now here we are not knowing
literally there is a manual in here
somewhere and we are
opening the manual going through trying
to figure out how to put this [__] back
together it was [__] bananas but this
is like this moment right here one
what's on my face
i'm [__] smiling man i'm smiling
because i believe in what i'm doing i
have a mission i'm not just trying to
get rich there's something that i
believe in there's people that i love
that were suffering that i wanted to do
something about i had them on my mind
and then truly advanced class [__] and
hopefully we'll get into this more later
when [__] really [__] goes wrong
man this is promise to yourself number
two promise yourself number two when
[__] really [__] goes wrong that's
the time to laugh
that's the time to be like all right if
i go playful right now it will change
the dynamic of everyone in the [__]
room
i'm gonna ask one person in this room i
want to [__] hear you when i say your
name you better be in this room too
casey elliot
make some [__] noise
[Music]
that woman is so hardcore you can't
imagine
but she really feels it when she [__]
up so casey when you [__] up what's my
attitude
am i angry
am i upbeat
she's like [__] you're not
upbeat
understanding you give me that much
whenever possible to bounce in that
opposite direction
and
change the dynamic of the way that
you're thinking so that you don't get
trapped in your own
neurochemistry because when you have an
emotion
the chances are you believe that emotion
but the brain has this crazy [__]
weird mechanism where however big you
react it goes oh it was that big of a
deal so if you freak the [__] out
and you're yelling and screaming then
your brain's like yeah man it really it
matters that [__] much
like
i said no cheese on this [__]
hamburger
this [__] cheese on this burger
that [__] is crazy you you can't [__]
do that you can't put
get the [__] paper says no cheese
and when you wind yourself up like that
then literally just gets hardwired that
yeah this really is that catastrophic
but the reverse is true something
horrifying happens something terrible
goes wrong and if you can in your mind
just flip it and be like yeah we're
gonna figure this out and i remember in
the early days when we got the equipment
everyone told us guys the bar you want
to make it cannot be made and i can't
tell you how many times we heard that's
kind of a boring story as to why but
people just kept telling us over and
over it can't be made it can't be made
we never plan to be our own manufacturer
we thought we'd outsource that every
time we went to make it somewhere they
said you're gonna have to add liquid
sugar to this otherwise there there's
just no way to make it
and we said well that would defeat the
purpose of the whole company so we're
not gonna do that so we're gonna go buy
our own equipment they're like you can
buy it it's not going to [__] work
and we were like no no man this is
definitely people are just being too
lazy
and we've got the will to see this [__]
through
so we're like all right let's buy it
send it in got it put it together we're
like i knew it
forklift driving the whole nine we're
like yeah we got this and then we ran
the first
attempt
and it didn't work yeah that [__] again
you can't make that bar on that
equipment i'll just i'll save you some
time if anybody wants to buy some old
equipment by the way
let me know
so we had like this area that we called
our follies and so we would take things
that didn't work and we would put them
over there
and when we first got this stuff
together and it didn't work and we were
trying and trying and trying and trying
and it was hours and by the way i'm not
i am not
this is a shout out to the guy earlier
who told me he burned the ships to be
here i'm not a burn the ships guy
i don't think you need to burn ships i'm
a knights and weekends guy i think you
need to work harder that way you don't
have a gun to your head financially
because that puts you in a place to make
short-term decisions instead of
long-term decisions you always want to
be somewhere where you're making
long-term decisions
so we were running a software company
by day
and then on nights and weekends we were
building quests we were making the bars
at first by hand then we were getting
the machines and trying to figure that
out and then when it didn't work one of
my partners was a literal iowa farm boy
and he had worked on tractors his whole
life and he's watching the line one day
as it's just all going to hell
he's like
i think i can fix this
and we're like okay
and he was like no no you're gonna have
to let me cut it apart though and if it
doesn't work then we're out it was like
all of our money
and we're like whoa now you have to keep
in mind
i went to lisa and i said hey
we're gonna have to put our house up as
collateral for this company
and if we fail
then we lose everything
and she literally without missing a beat
she says
i bet on
you that that is that was one of those
things where literally in the moment i
was like
say it again
which she has so many times that woman
she is for real right or die but in that
moment where he was like hey i want to
cut this [__] apart and then put it back
together but if it doesn't work then
we're out the money
i'm thinking i'd be out of my house and
the one conversation that i don't want
to have with my wife is
hey you know we we had literally i think
just got in the house like six or eight
months before that
so i was like i do not want to have that
conversation and so that's where the the
mentality of burning the ships becomes
important but tie it to something that
is already real it's already there
there's no way around it you're not
going out of your way to create more
problems for yourself so
i was not going to lose that house and
so that became like the thing in my mind
all right we're going to try this but we
are going to make it work and so he
literally got a sawzall out and a
blowtorch he cut that [__] apart he put
it back together and it actually [__]
worked
and that was one of those moments where
you're like whoa man you really do have
to have a certain appetite for risk and
so that's the third thing i'm going to
say you guys need to do you've got to
give your yourself permission to royally
[__] up
because if you're afraid to royally [__]
up if you're afraid to lose the house
it's okay to say i'm not gonna do it man
i'm gonna [__] fight and push and i'm
gonna do everything i can to stop it but
if you're not willing to accept
those kinds of consequences you will
have to play it smaller
so you've got to give yourself
permission to royally [__] up now why am
i not afraid of royally [__] up
because i know one thing this is so
[__] important
failure
is the single
most
information-rich data stream that exists
you will never learn faster from
anything than you'll learn from failure
one
pain psychic pain triggers all kinds of
things in your brain the hippocampus
becomes more active your amygdala
becomes more active you write the
memories harder your brain focuses on it
more so there's just this intensity that
happens when you fail
also failure is
essentially the closest thing you're
going to get to a sporting result the
nice thing about sports and part of the
reason they become like this
gladiatorial thing that we obsess over
and think about is because you know who
won and you know who lost you know who's
the best you know who's the worst you
can see the [__] stats you watch it
happen before your eyes it's very hard
in life we don't often get that does my
boss like me do they not like me am i
gonna get the promotion am i doing what
i want should i even be in this job like
you have no [__] idea and then you
make a decision and you don't know like
would it have worked out better the
other way who knows you never get to try
it
so when life slaps you in the [__]
mouth
and you realize that you've really made
a catastrophic error
then if you can approach it
defenselessly
meaning
you're not trying to protect your ego
because you wisely have already promised
yourself that you're not going to tie
your ego to the outcome you're going to
tie it to the sincere pursuit so you
need only ask yourself one question in
attempting that thing that i just failed
catastrophically was i sincerely
pursuing the right outcome and if the
answer was yes you get to feel good
about yourself
and so you step into that moment
saying i tried and i failed i know that
failure is the most information data
rich stream that there is
so what is the lesson here
and getting good at teasing that out
and
facing
even more than i'll say figuring it out
what you've done wrong
owning it
accepting it
allows you to not make that mistake the
next time
and my encouragement to you guys is
never judge yourself to the lens of a
moment you're going to mess up you're
going to mess up a lot
and if you loop negatively over that
mistake it just isn't effective
and i always tell people do and believe
that which moves you towards your goals
like if you just repeat that one
obsessively in your head then one day
you're going to get to a point where you
do something that really makes you
dislike yourself hello my friend you
know that i believe success requires you
to see failure as the ultimate learning
tool success requires you to be
disciplined and gritty and to never ever
quit on your dreams i say all of that
because one thing is certain the road to
achieving your goal is not smooth or
linear i wish it was but it's not it's
going to be bumpy sometimes scary some
days you'll take two steps forward and
slide 10 steps back and that's why
success also requires you to know how to
pull yourself out of a rut and get
unstuck fast life is short you can't be
messing around with your goals you've
got to make progress every single day so
i've pulled a class from impact theory
university called how to get unstuck
which you can watch for free with the
link on your screen or by clicking below
when you join me for that free preview
of that workshop from impact theory
university i'm going to teach you my
strategy for how to
understand exactly where you need to be
going how to identify the obstacle
that's blocking you and the best way to
make the most progress towards that goal
and keep your momentum right click that
link and let's get to work all right
i'll see you on the inside
and you're gonna have to ask
does disliking myself move me forward or
not if it moves me forward then i'm
going to do it but chances are it's not
going to you may want to feel the sting
of it that may really propel you forward
but you don't want to exist in that
state where you're just allowing
yourself to beat yourself up because no
good ever comes of that at that point it
is simply punishment
and so you have to ask yourself the
value of that punishment the value of
the duration of the punishment and so i
began to be able to talk myself out of
these self-limiting ideas these beliefs
about myself not being able to do it
simply because i said i'm willing to
live even if i don't believe it i'm
willing to live by the edict that i
should only do and believe that which
moves me towards my goals and i had this
thing in me i wanted to punish myself i
want to beat myself up when i did
something stupid i want it i certainly
started thinking less and less of myself
and it just became ever more clear that
that wasn't serving me it wasn't
propelling me forward
and so building in these beliefs
rules in your life
become the foundation upon which you're
going to build
and so
this notion of building something brick
by brick
of looking at your life on a long
timeline of not judging yourself in a
moment but rather i like to look at
myself in 10-year increments
if you ever want to feel good about
yourself look at your life in a 10-year
increment because maybe over a month you
didn't do anything very interesting you
can't really put your finger on what
you've learned or who you've met or have
you really made any progress maybe you
had a bad year and so looking at that
year you're like damn and i really moved
backwards and i asked this question one
time of a guy that went through his
residency
and i said he was about to become a
full-fledged medical doctor
and anybody in itu this literally just
happened this last week
and i said think back 10 years
and what you knew about human biology at
that point
imagine
you were going to step out and perform
surgery on somebody or be a gp and make
recommendations for somebody with the
knowledge that you had then what would
that feel like he was like that'd be
terrifying i'd be terrible
and i said now imagine
how much you've learned in that 10 years
and he was like yeah [__] and he's
smiling and i said now i want you to
realize if you play the game right 10
years from now
you're going to think of who you are
today the way the you thinks of you 10
years ago
and that's when this [__] gets fun
because when you realize ah stumble here
there failure fall on your face whatever
none of it's really going to matter if
you're just
relentlessly
learning and learning and learning and
learning and learning and if you're
doing that and if you're staying focused
then you're going to be able to begin to
stack these bricks and build the thing
that you want to build
but to build that thing you're going to
need clarity
i'm just curious as to
what's on the screen behind me
the bad news is if i were to sit with
you and push you on it the odds are that
you still lack that clarity now clarity
is one of those things that i talk a lot
about so i'm not going to beat it to
death tonight but i just want to say
however clear you think you are you're
not clear enough yet
and the reason that i can say that just
beyond a shadow of a doubt is when you
know something from like 10 000 angles
you just know it from every which way
you know exactly like quadrants on a map
you know precisely latitude longitude
all of it down to like a grain of sand
of where you're trying to head when you
have that then you really can come at it
from any angle you can divert for a
moment because you know where you're
going back to when you don't have that
clarity you're always lost
and that's where most entrepreneurs
spend their time because remember
if i was the person i wanted to be
i would have walked out tonight and said
the only thing that stands between you
and your dreams is a set of skills
drop the [__] mic but i know that
that doesn't break through it doesn't
get through to people the way that i
wanted to but once you if you can return
to that over and over and over
every time something goes wrong in my
life i am asking myself one simple
question what is it that i suck at i
suck at something there's something i'm
doing wrong by definition if i were
doing it right then i would be getting
the outcome that i wanted i'm not
getting the outcome that i want
therefore i'm doing something wrong it
is all my fault i'm not trying to feel
badly about myself because i am divorced
from the outcome i'm only valuing myself
for being a learner sincerely pursuing
that's it
so i'm not saying all that stuff to kick
the [__] out of myself to feel badly
about myself to hold myself back i'm
saying it because the [__] reality
working your ass off getting [__]
good by the way this is me at an airport
we had a delay in fact anybody see the
tony robbins episode
that's me stuck in the [__] airport
on our way to interview tony robbins and
i was like
this [__] is gonna know i know
who he is
the intro was like broken into chapter
and verse
i had that [__] down he actually i don't
remember if it made the final cut but he
was like
yo
i'm sorry you had to read all that
i was like tony i needed you to know
i know who the [__] you are tony
but like really going in heads down like
just just believe this
this is my new obsession
the human animal
we don't have
big fangs
we don't have sharp claws
what we have
is the ability to change
we're crazy [__] adaptive
and i'm sure you guys have heard the
quote it's not the strongest of the
species that survives nor the most
intelligent but rather the most adaptive
to change
our ability to change is unparalleled
there is no other animal that you can
find in the number of locations that you
can find us
my famous before and after hey nothing
quite like standing in front of a group
of people in your underwear twice
uh i would like to point out my wife put
these together
um well first let's talk about the one
on the left this is one of my favorite
stories so i had been lifting believe it
or not for a long time over on the uh i
guess
your guys's left yeah so on the left my
my heavy picture
i've been lifting and lifting and
lifting and lifting and i went to see
this friend that i hadn't seen in years
and i wore my titus shirt and i was like
oh man she's gonna say something and my
wife knew how excited i was i was like
she's gonna see me and be like oh my god
you got so buff [__] what did you do
and sat down spent the whole night with
her and she didn't say a goddamn thing
like didn't even bring it up
i was like
what
and so my wife and i are leaving that
lovely beautiful woman who introduced me
and she said
when i asked i said yo can you believe
sophie didn't say anything and she was
like oh maybe she just thought you got
fat
what'd you say
that's a possibility
i was what i was literally beside myself
that is actually the night that that was
said to me i was like all right we're
taking that [__] before picture right
now
right this very second
and then it's about
an unending amount of work there are two
years in between these pictures two
grueling years of fighting with my wife
because she was telling me that i was
dieting wrong and i was so [__]
hungry i could not hear that [__]
you can't try to take a man's fat burger
when he's doing two hours of cardio a
[__] day all right
that's icy [__]
but when you put in the work you and the
body is is a really [__] tangible
example of just how much change the
human body is capable of
and so when you see
what you can do to your body it is this
insanely powerful reminder of just how
much adaptation you're capable of and
that game of adaptation like once you
buy into i am an average human
the average human is capable of
extraordinary
adaptation
adaptation follows certain rules
all i have to do to become extraordinary
and get where i want to go is follow the
rules of adaptation that is the [__]
gospel truth that's it that is the name
of this game that is how you acquire
skills
you do what is called deliberate
practice read the book the talent code
read the book the talent code it's on my
list
so everybody in this room of course has
already read all the books on my list
right
read the book man
that [__] book makes it really clear
hey there are three levels in the brain
that you learn in one sort of surface
one's intermediary and then one's deep
as [__] in your brain and that's where
it gets into the autonomic nervous
system where things are happening
automatically where you're just good at
[__] and where you look effortless like
right now
i know
one of you people
even though you know me you know my
[__] story you know when lisa said we
were in a room with four people they
were her [__] family i'd known him
for a decade they asked me to tell a
story and i literally couldn't speak
i had gotten so anxious i had let my
mind run away with me so much i could
not have people talk to me i couldn't
have them look at me if there was any
expectation that i was gonna talk my
[__] heart would start racing
so nothing that you're seeing right now
is the result of oh he has natural
talent
but i know that's where people go
because you do something so much like
none of you are thinking about i'm not
joking when i was a kid i wanted to be a
stand-up comic so i would spend [__]
hours with a hairbrush in front of the
[__] mirror making faces and [__] and
the fact that now i only have two faces
really pisses me off i have big smile
and neutral and i look pissed
literally we just had this conversation
yesterday at impact theory and somebody
was like you know have you ever thought
about standing in front of the mirror
yes
i've already [__] done it i did that
when i was 12 god damn it didn't help
here we are
but you clocked so many hours doing
something over and over and over that
you really if you do it in a deliberate
way and daniel coyle in the book the
talent code breaks down exactly what
deliberate practice is it is not simply
repeating something it is going to the
thing you suck at so you often will hear
people say
hey just figure out what you're good at
and do that i've never ever once ever
encountered something where i could get
paid to just masturbate
so if that's the [__] deal
then i'm in trouble
but that [__] i took to that fast i
won't lie about that
no training nothing i just [__]
i knew what to do
it was [__] amazing
but getting good at other [__] that i
could actually monetize and do something
with
that's been a very different story
that's all been about deliberate
practice it's been about figuring out
how the brain works really understanding
the brain science of this all and
getting into that and structuring things
like that so you're going what am i weak
at where am i not good what is the thing
that i need to focus on because once you
start doing that like once you get into
ah this is what is necessary for me to
get where i want to go this is the gap
between where i am and where i want to
be and that gap is made entirely of
skills
then the fear kicks in
and you're not going to believe in your
ability to cross that chasm okay now
here's what i want you guys to do
crossing the fear chasm is actually
deadly simple it's the easiest thing
you're going to do
but it requires you to unwind some of
your beliefs
because right now
in fact this is a lot like money
people are going to tell you ah money
can't buy happiness and they're they're
going to say then don't don't chase it
and you're going to think but god damn i
have to pay rent
i want to drive a car i need some gas i
need to eat and so part of it when
people say that you're like yeah yeah
yeah money can't buy happiness but it
[__] pays for a car payment and it
puts my kids through school and all of
that [__] and so you can't
like ever make it gel
and fear is the same thing because when
you fail
it is going to hurt
you will go through a momentary crisis i
still do
every time i fail i go on that roller
coaster the key is how fast can you make
that roller coaster
can you get it to a day from three days
can you get it from a day to an hour can
you get it from an hour to a minute from
a minute to a second can you get it to
the point where it doesn't even register
on your face
and that became my goal i wanted to see
how rapidly i could change my emotional
state
and could i change my emotional state
so quickly
that people didn't even realize that i'd
had a big reaction internally that i
fell on my face and that it sucked and i
was embarrassed and horrified
and when you begin to get that kind of
emotional control over things then
you're going to be able to move forward
so the key to doing that is one you have
to practice shortening the amount of
time that that hurts but the only way
that you're going to be able to do that
is letting yourself off the hook one to
stop thinking the negative voice is
going to go away it almost certainly is
not i've never met anybody who didn't
have a negative voice i've seen monks
speak that have been meditating for 40
years and they have a negative voice it
is this is why i think really
understanding the truth of human biology
is so [__] important like to to not
be tricked by your brain because you
know how it works you know that there
are literal parts of your brain its job
its job its evolutionary function is to
worry
there is a region of your brain called
the deep limbic system if you want to
really get [__] up this is so crazy
read the book by
vs ramachandran phantoms in the brain
and he talks about syndromes where
people get certain parts of their brains
damaged and there is a part of your
brain the deep limbic system if i [__]
that up in you you no longer experience
emotion
so your brain has a region that tells
you not what's happening it tells you
how to feel about what's happening
if that doesn't right there already tell
you living in the [__] matrix your
brain has no intention of just giving
you like objective data it's not about
that it's not just saying there is a
thing with fur
a face a heartbeat claws at six inches
you're dead
right it's like yo [__]
something moved it's a little bit orange
run like [__] hell
and that's it and so you have these
things that's their job to keep you
alive to keep you safe but now you put
yourself in a modern context you have to
know what's going on so that you can
de-escalate that [__] because more
people or i should say people are more
afraid
of speaking at a funeral giving the
eulogy than they are of being in the
[__] casket
like about the time that you're so
afraid of what other people think you
would rather be dead
than be embarrassed
that's when you know your mind is not
always working for you
once you begin to realize oh my mind is
not always working for me it does not
have the same agenda that i have
then you can begin to say okay how does
it work for me how does it work against
me what are the rules how can i bend
some of these this is why i'm obsessed
with the movie the matrix it is the
perfect metaphor for the human condition
i don't think we actually live in a
simulation except for the one created in
our own minds right david eagleman
episode watch that one he talks about
how your brain is literally encased in
total darkness and yet right now do you
not all feel like you're perceiving
light
it feels like the [__] light is just
getting into your brain
but it is not it is being translated
into electrical chemical signals that
your brain then translates and creates a
virtual representation of what it sees
and it's good enough that you don't bump
into too much [__] but it is all [__]
painted with what the brain thinks you
need to stay alive and one of the things
that thinks you need to stay alive is a
really [__] negative voice telling
you don't [__] do that man you're
really gonna [__] that up no for real
people are gonna be super embarrassed
when you [__] that up you're probably
gonna lose your house by the way you
barely got this job if you quit this job
and go to another job who knows how long
you've heard the economy is going to
turn what the [__] you're going to do
then oh you're going to get laid being
broke uh-huh real sexy in the back of a
[__] minivan
and that [__] just plays and plays and
plays and plays and plays and if you
know it's coming then you can interrupt
it and you can insert other beliefs that
actually make [__] sense because they
move you towards your goal right which
is why we have to have clarity so once
you have clarity you know what your goal
is you only believe that which moves you
towards your goal you hear the negative
voice that does not move you towards
your goal you interrupt it because you
understand the way the brain works you
hit it with this mantra phrase whatever
rule belief whatever that thing is
and now you're changing your
neurochemical state so you don't
actually feel that oppression
but that's what i want people to
understand is all of this you're living
this life in this neurochemical soup
like [__] is gonna happen you're gonna
feel some kind of way all the time and
that feeling is as real as you let it be
or you can be like no i don't choose to
feel that and then change the narrative
and feel something else and that sounds
like just self-help words that [__] is
real that is the truth of the human
condition
there's a book called the brain that
changes itself
think about that you have an organ
between your ears
it is considered to be the most complex
thing in the universe more complex than
the stars more complex than [__]
plants and if you know anything about
photosynthesis those [__] are
not for play
i mean we can get into all the like
crazy plant [__] that that's like a
whole thing but there are a lot of lot
of really complicated things in this
universe and nothing comes close to the
complexity in the human brain
and so beginning to understand how to
leverage that thing to
not be beholden to it to really begin to
harness its power so that you can move
where you want to go you can take
control of that process and propel
yourself forward but it all comes back
to actually understanding how it works
and when you understand that you're
living in this neurochemical soup
that all of that stuff is alterable
and that it changes through thought
alone
that's crazy through thought alone you
can change you can change the physical
wiring of your brain the most
complicated thing in the universe
by thinking about changing it
by thinking about changing it and if
there's anyone in this room that is i am
not an expert on this but i find myself
deeply deeply deeply fascinated by it if
there's anyone here suffering um from
major trauma something has happened to
you and just a room this size i can
guarantee a massive percentage of you
have you owe it to yourself to explore
medically supervised
mdma or something like that now why i've
never done it but why do i think if i
had a trauma i guarantee it is the
[__] first thing i would do
why
because what it's doing you guys know
who roger bannister is
four minute mile all right
the notion that the four minute mile was
beyond human capability stood for
decades so imagine for decades we have
professional running track and field
people going for it i'm gonna do it no
you're not it's not possible the lungs
the heart they can't handle it people
kept getting close but nobody could
break it and so everybody just said look
it is medically impossible humans cannot
run a four minute mile just [__]
accept it and move on and then one guy
was like nah i refuse to believe that he
was a medical student and i don't know
if some of it came from actually
understanding the body and he was like
there's nothing in the physiology of the
human body that would tell you you can't
run a [__] second faster so for
decades this thing stands then people
start saying well maybe somebody could
break it but it would have to be under
perfect conditions it would have to be a
windless day dry conditions and he would
have to be in front of like a big uh
crowd cheering him on to run his best
performance ever and roger bannister
shows up on a rainy cold wet windy day
in front of like 26 people
and [__] breaks the record
now that's not the trippy part
the trippy part is
19 days later somebody else broke the
[__] beat his record it stood
for decades imagine something standing
for 40 years and then within 19 days
it's broken again within a year within a
year
three people break it in the same race
once you believe something is possible
once you taste that
thing that other thing like tony hawk
when he was trying to do the 900. he was
like
honestly i didn't know if it could be
done
and so once he landed it then everybody
started doing it and it just became dave
roger like yeah yeah of course if you
can't do the 900 you can't even [__]
compete but it had stood for so long
until you could see oh it can be done
so the mdma thing is it puts you in such
an altered brain state that you realize
you can love yourself again and when you
feel that just [__] intense
acceptance and you're looking at the
trauma you're looking at the trauma do
this with somebody who knows what the
[__] they're doing not saying go to
vegas and get ecstasy
medical treatment mdma find a study
they're out there
but
being able to taste that other
thing the other state of loving and
accepting yourself totally
even though the neurochemistry is going
to radically change as you come out of
that you've now tasted it you've run the
4-minute mile you know it is possible
you've experienced it you lived it you
were there it's not somebody telling you
about that [__] it is actual to you you
know it's possible and that's the
[__] thing about success that's what
i want you guys to taste i want you to
know that this has been broken by
somebody
just as dumb as you
i'm not joking you look at me as like an
after photo i look at me as a before
photo like if you show me this is one of
our first offices
but if you show me and i don't know if
you already rolled them baby but um show
the the photos of me as a kid
so
genius right
obviously
you can tell that kid's [__] bright
he's going places
uh i used to wear that all the time
and yep there's another one this was a
this is a hat i was particularly fond of
so i did not take myself very seriously
so when i always tell the story that
uh
my own mother who was my biggest
cheerleader
quietly assumed that i was going to fail
when i left for college
there she is what's up
moms so
she had reason to believe
that i was going to fail i didn't take
myself seriously i didn't take anything
seriously i cheated all the way through
high school
and
it wasn't until
shame quite frankly
started dragging me out of bed i was
engaged to the lovely and beautiful mrs
elizabeth bill you
and yeah
and
she would come home
this is we were living at her mom's
house by the way
and that's not sexy
living at her mom's house
she was working i wasn't and my only job
was to make her a sandwich when she came
home for lunch because she would come
home for lunch
and i would lay in bed saying i'm gonna
get up in five minutes five minutes fine
i'm gonna get up in five minutes
and i would lay in bed for three four
sometimes five hours in the morning and
the only thing that got me up was
knowing if i didn't get up right then i
wasn't going to have her sandwich ready
when she came and that was like a shame
too deep to bear
and so i would scramble down my hair a
mess in just sweatpants the same
sweatpants that i wore every day which
she
uh did not find very sexy
and i would make her sandwich and be
kind of mad if she seemed a little off
that you know i had i made the sandwich
yeah you know if you could do your hair
maybe that would be nice i was just like
jesus ask ask ask
and
finally i realized
i told her i was gonna make her rich and
when i proposed to
when i went to her dad to ask for his
blessing to propose to her he told me no
he wasn't gonna give me his blessing
and he asked me a super powerful
question
and he said
how are you going to take care of my
daughter
i was broke i didn't have a job
and i said sir look i know you see is
a broke kid who's undereducated
from tacoma washington
and
what you don't see
is that i'm the most ambitious person
you've ever met
and i thought he would be moved
and i thought he would be like
you know what kid good on you
go marry my daughter
and he didn't he was like look you can
have sex with her but for the love of
god
do not marry my daughter
and i'm not joking
he didn't use those words in his defense
but he made it abundantly clear i'm not
old-fashioned tom i'm not old-fashioned
and
they have a greek phrase
sigasiga which means slowly slowly so
that became like the mantra for the
whole family because everybody knew that
andreas had this whole thing where he
wanted me to take it slowly and i was
going far too fast for him and i said
look sorry respect what you're saying
but i am going to propose to your
daughter
and there i am
she said yes i gave her the whole speech
i'm going to make you rich this is going
to be [__] amazing i've got all this
ambition i'm going to make it happen
and as i'm laying in bed i have a
pivotal realization
which is that there is a
massive chasm between ambition and drive
and i had the ambition and i did not
have the drive to see it through but i
was so ashamed of myself
that that shame actually propelled me
forward because i now had essentially
people watching i had a father-in-law i
wanted to know what i was going to make
myself i had my fiancee who wanted to
know like if i was really going gonna be
the man that i promised her i was gonna
be and so that got me moving and that
got me headed in the right direction and
that got me into
all the things that you see now but it
was this incredibly long journey of
being disappointed in myself and having
shame and not knowing what i was doing
and being in over my head and spending
so much time in over my head that i end
up developing crushing anxiety because
i'm failing so much and i'm failing so
often but i have not yet divorced myself
from the outcome so because i'm so tied
to the outcome every hit is a hit to who
i am and so i begin turning inward and
i'm thinking less of myself even though
i'm moving up and moving forward i just
spent so much time
smack bang on my face doing something
stupid saying something stupid actually
[__] something up and costing a lot
of money over and over and over and so
because i thought that meant
i was bad i was unworthy i was never
going to be able to achieve something it
was sending me into this [__] death
spiral and it wasn't until i really
started having to learn about the brain
to get out from underneath the anxiety
that i began to put a lot of the pieces
in place the rules the beliefs and
everything that ended up allowing me to
catapult forward
and that is
what for lisa and i impact theory is all
about it's just getting people to
realize
you're an average human
being an average human is enough you can
change far more than you think but it's
going to be really really [__] hard
and so i cannot promise you
that it is going to be easy
because the dreams that you guys want to
do they're big
and some of you guys have specific
dreams that are gigantic
and i [__] love that
and while i think
the most powerful thing you can give any
human being is doubt
i'm not going to give you that tonight
what i want to give you tonight is a
very simple idea
you can have
do
and become
anything
you want
anything you want if it doesn't violate
the laws of physics you can have it
do it become it
doesn't matter your age
gender ethnicity
sexual orientation literally none of it
matters
but what does matter
is you have to become extraordinary
so the first step in this incredibly
arduous journey that you're going to be
on if you want to be extraordinary
is simply to believe you can become
extraordinary
it will be hard
you will fail
you will be afraid
you will embarrass yourself
you will make mistakes
there will be the dark night of the soul
and in that moment in that dark night of
the soul the only thing that's going to
rescue you are your beliefs about the
way the world works
because you're not going to feel good
about yourself
but if you can piece that mindset
together where it's about the pursuit
that you're a learner that's your
identity
then you can begin to cobble this stuff
back together and get back up on your
feet and get moving
so said simply the idea i want to leave
you with
it does not matter who you are today
it only matters who you want to become
and the price you're willing to pay to
get there
thank you
all right the first thing to know about
me is i am not a born entrepreneur now
there are many people that consider
themselves a born entrepreneur i am not
one of them i know that there were kids
out there that had lemonade stands when
they were like six months old they
couldn't hold their head up but they
could sell that was not me i was